OK.
By this point, you're probably tired of hearing about a physical interpretation of the Doppler shift.
We've banged it home, ready to proceed and start deriving what that Doppler ship actually is going
to be.
OK, so to do this, I'm going to do it in multiple ways.
I'm going to do it in approach that's aligned with what we're talking about here.
It's more of a physical, intuition based approach.
And then I'm going to repeat the derivation by taking a look at ENM waves, OK?
And we're going to find that the result pops out naturally from the mathematics, as you've probably
heard me say multiple times in previous courses.
If you dry, result once, that's awesome.
If you can derive multiple times, that strength is the likelihood of it being true and increases your
confidence.
That's the route we're going to take.
OK.
So for this derivation, we're going to use the scenario I outlined with Terrence and fill up.
And what is important is taking a look.
At the total length of the weight room, as I outlined right there.
Now, normally if we had an emission of a wave and it was received by a stationary observer, the length
of the wave chain, which is B and C T or rather, you know, give you the total number of emitter waves
three times.
In this case, what we find is that after time, t from a transmission to receival terrace to when it
was received.
We know that the waves traveled C times T, right, two meters per second time time that gets meters,
but it didn't have to travel that entire distance because it's being decreased the distance that has.
So the total distance it has to travel would be c t minus b t.
OK.
So what we want to try and compute is the new wavelength that's observed by Philip.
Why did he observe a different frequency?
Why did he observe a different wavelength?
Let's try that.
So to signify that rather I'm going to call it land the Prime.
And the original parameter is going to have a not.
But we said that the distance that was traveled by the wave is.
CC, the total time elapsed, observe from source to receiver, same rounder's, the key characteristics
we talked about minus the speed of that observer and the same time.
So that's the total distance traveled.
And in that time, in that time, we know that terrorists emitted and we the total number of ways to
run time.
So we take the time, the distance it traveled and divide by the number of waves emitted.
Remember the number ways and the number of wavelengths that will give you our new apparent wavelength?
Right.
So let's do that calculation.
Let's do that.
So you divide by and here.
And then next, what we want to do is we say, Hey, Philip is going to observe this new wavelength
due to the motion.
Of his reference frame, his different perspective, if you will, next, what we want to do is we want
to see how that affects the frequency, right?
We know the frequency is related wavelength as such.
OK, so let's try and calculate a new relative.
Frequency asked Prime.
So if you use our definition, we can say that's just see.
Over our new relative wavelength.
Let's see how that affects.
How about affects our frequency so we could just take?
This guy right here.
So let's see the bottom by all this, the end pops up.
We get see.
And over C C minus B C.
OK, so I know what you're saying, you're probably like, oh, we didn't even we barely even made any
progress here.
What are we doing?
This looks more tolerable.
What she could do actually is you can pull out the sea.
Right.
We have sea over sea, just a one.
And to make this.
Easier.
I'm going to pull up the tea, also love this guy right here.
Not irate there.
And we know that is on the bottom line is Betty.
So we want to get rid of the C, so we take this guy and divide by sea.
OK, so now we got that, that apparently nice value here and we can cancel that.
See, so we end up with the foul.
Next, we want to do is we want to make note of this.
OK, so we know that.
If we take a situation where the observer is still right, we take this.
We know we could take the initial frequency multiply by the time traveled, and that will give us the
number of weeks.
Right.
The frequency is how frequent this cycle occurs every second.
Multiply by the total time that gives you the total number of wavelengths, in essence, the total number
of bit of width.
So if we use this fact?
Using.
This guy right here.
And the equal, the original frequency, f not horns, our teeth.
We could plug this guy in here and we get a pretty interesting result.
So we end up with f prime.
Is equal to if not.
See?
Over three times, one minus v, over C.
OK, so if we cancel the total time observed and now you can see, see that was sort of a term that
was used to try and pull out this result.
We get the final result we end up with.
The relative frequency is defined as the original frequency, if not divided by one minus V.
Oversee, OK.
It's important results, and what we want to do is take a look at this and see if we can understand
what's going on.
So what's really cool is.
We've seen the definition that it talks about a phenomenon caused by relative motion, so you would
expect to have a velocity that velocity of your reference frame.
And we do observe that in the final result, we have this one minus B over C term.
But let's take different situations and see if it makes sense.
So if we take this situation where the velocity is moving towards the source.
Right.
So we put an age as a positive value v, we see that one minus fee, which is less than C, so it's
like one minus 0.5.
So it's like multiplying the frequency.
So we're increasing the frequency.
We get an increased frequency and that makes sense because as I said, as tears or fill of flies, twist
stands.
He's decreasing the distance between the wave and him, so his apparent observation of that, he sees
more crests or more droughts.
Right.
The wavelengths watch for in between that wave, right?
So it makes sense that his frequency is increasing.
Now, if he's flying in the opposite direction, what we could do is.
We just change the sign of big.
So if that happens, this gets a positive in on the bottom.
This is always greater than one.
So we're making that frequency shorter, which makes sense because as Phil flies out, he's increasing
the distance between the wave and his observation point that has to travel.
So he experiences less crests or less throughout.
OK, so that's what is happening.
And the same exact thing can happen if your source is moving towards a stationary observer.
Right?
The observer is going to experience that shift.
This is what we observed with the ambulance that I talked about previously.
Same idea.
What is important is the relative motion between the two.
OK, so that's going to dictate the sign in this case.
What we have here, I put a negative here and this.
This scenario is going to represent the case where the distance between the two is shortening, the
relative motion is towards one another, the source and the receiver are moving towards one another
if they're moving in the opposite direction.
It is a sign and you get results when you run through problems.
It'll be important to know distinct the two different scenarios and use them, as such as the relative
motion, whether it's closing up or opening up.
OK.
The last thing I want to do before we move on a bit is I want to make a distinction between what you
may observe in a textbook.
And.
The result we just arrived because.
This may be a source of confusion, and I want to eliminate that from what we're doing.
So if you open up a textbook on Doppler shifts, we do some kind of search.
You might see this result, but you might see a different result.
OK, so what I want to say is that.
If we take this, we can simplify it a bit further.
Right?
So one, if we if we assume this guy we oversee.
Is X our variable?
We say one over one minus X.
You actually do a Taylor series or something known as a binomial expansion, and you can express this
as.
The Sun over NW from an equals zero.
To Infinity.
I believe it's X to the end.
That's correct, x to the N.
And that's just going to equal one.
Plus X.
Plus x squared.
Over two factorial.
OK, so that can go on infinitely.
But the important thing to note is that if X is very small and I've run through the starvation multiple
times, YouTube videos, my courses, so on and so forth.
This is really small.
The square, a small value is extremely small.
So this relative to this is much more as X gets small y you could do is you can approximate this.
As approximately.
One plus x, so what you may observe is that f prime.
The observed frequency is equal to the original source frequency over one minus VRC.
But it's also.
One plus the embassy.
Times at not.
And this is applicable when VRC it much less than one.
OK, and especially a radar.
Radar computations when?
The observer velocity is very small compared to the speed of light.
This is much more useful and much easier to work with because you can see the shift quite clearly,
right?
If V is positive, it's moving toward each other.
The frequency increases.
If it's moving away from each other, put a negative in here one minus that parameter, you're decreasing
the frequency.
It's easier to work with.
But what have we done?
What we have done is we briefly reviewed some parameters for the waves that allowed us to drive this
universal conception between two different perspectives.
Right?
So by running through this analysis, we developed this bridge that we bridge that gap between two different
perspectives.
And that allowed us to derive a more inclusive language that encapsulates reality and covers everything
we could observe.
In essence.
It's a a more accurate and more inclusive perspective, while in reality on the universe.
OK, so we observed that when there's relative motion between reference frames, that relative motion
helps to drive a shift in frequency when we're dealing with waves in sound.
This could be a change in pitch as we're going to find.
With light waves.
That change.
It's going to be known as a red shift can change the color.
Of observed entities, whether it be stars and astronomy, so on and so forth.
If you're in the ocean, if you're a surfer, you have waves coming up and down and you're moving into
the wave.
It could be how choppy the water appears.
OK, so that's the Doppler shift.
This is more of a physical intuition, a derivation from physical principles.
That's what I'm going to take a look at is a propagating electromagnetic wave.
Just because we're dealing with radar and, you know, radar emits light.
So we're going to try to derive the same results.
By taking a mathematical representation of a propagating wave.
And then working through all the math to find out the same result pops out and strengthen.
Well, he's just arrived.
Stay tuned.